Update Motion Builder Documentation (#191)
ynput/ayon-documentation: website/docs/addon_motionbuilder_artist.md

---
id: addon_motionbuilder_artist
title: Motionbuilder Docs
sidebar_label: Motionbuilder
---

import ReactMarkdown from "react-markdown";
import versions from '@site/docs/assets/json/Ayon_addons_version.json'

<ReactMarkdown>
{versions.MotionBuilder_Badge}
</ReactMarkdown>

:::note Work in progress
This part of documentation is still work in progress.
:::

> ## First Steps With AYON

Reviewer: Would be nice to add short description what Ayon and MotionBuilder offers / allows to do within our integration...can be just few sentences. As me, myself not so sure what can be done with it...also noting version management among others.

![AYON Launcher](assets/motionbuilder_ayon_menu.png)

:::note AYON Menu
User should use this menu exclusively for **Opening/Saving** when dealing with work files not standard ```File Menu``` even though user still being able perform file operations via this menu but preferably just performing quick saves during work session not saving actual workfile versions.
:::

## Creating and Publishing Instances

:::warning Important
Before proceeding further please check [Glossary](artist_concepts.md) and [What Is Publishing?](artist_publish.md) So you have clear idea about terminology.
:::

### Intro

Current MotionBuilder Integration supports ```Workfile```and ```Animation``` product types for publishing while ```Animation```, ```Camera```,
```Model```and ```Rig``` for loading.

Both **Animation** and **Workfile** product type are outputting the animation in FBX format. **Workfile** product type generally outputs all objects from the scene. **Animation** product type allow users to choose export by model selections and their FBX export options before publishing.

## Publish Animation
Select the objects in the scene you want to export and go **AYON -> Create** and select **Animation**.

> There are several FBX options available being user customizable in AYON: *Embed Media*, *Save Selected Models Only*, *Keep Transform Hierarchy*

Reviewer: would be great to include info on each settings like what ```Embed Media```, ```Keep Transforms Hierarchy``` and ```Save Selected Models Only``` does... even tho the latest having some info the first 2 options doesnt have any.

![AYON Creator](assets/motionbuilder_creator.png)

If you turn on *Save Selected Models Only*, and select your model in the scene, the model is added to the created set. AYON would solely publish the animated model under the set.

> ## Loading Point Cache

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Loading Products
```

Author: Should we also rename the loader?

Reviewer: well I wasnt aware of the MB terminology and thought any loaded asset being just called ```Product``` within Ayon pipeline...and that was more like "generic section header about general purpose/approaches" ...I will leave that to your decision then

The loader only imports the asset in FBX format which is published from ```Animation```, ```Camera```, ```Model```and ```Rig```.

The loader will create the set which includes the loaded assets. All these assets are with the namespace, which is useful for updating assets.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Removing  Products
```

:::

## Creating and Publishing Instances

:::warning Important
Before proceeding further please check [Glossary](artist_concepts.md) and [What Is Publishing?](artist_publish.md) So you have clear idea about terminology.
:::

### Intro

Current MotionBuilder Integration supports ```Workfile```and ```Animation``` product types for publishing while ```Animation```, ```Camera```,
```Model```and ```Rig``` for loading.

Both **Animation** and **Workfile** product type are outputting the animation in FBX format. **Workfile** product type generally outputs all objects from the scene. **Animation** product type allow users to choose export by model selections and their FBX export options before publishing.

## Publish Animation
Select the objects in the scene you want to export and go **AYON -> Create** and select **Animation**.
There are several FBX options available being user customizable in AYON: *Embed Media*, *Save Selected Models Only*, *Keep Transform Hierarchy*

> *Embed Media*: Embed all media in the FBX file. If the FBX is saved in ASCII mode, it is not impossible to embed media

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Embed Media*: When enabled, it is possible to embed all media into FBX file. If the FBX being in ASCII format then it is impossible to embed any media in.
```
